# Shiny_Oil
To see app
https://angus.shinyapps.io/Shiny_Oil/

There is a small universe of different trading strategies. However, one convenient way of categorizing them is convergence vs divergence trading. This app (with other data sets) provides convergence traders with the ability to quickly consider the risk/reward profile for a chosen asset (in this example WTI oil). Typically a day trader tries to exploit abrupt movements and or resistance levels in conjunction with financial products (often with leverage) that allow him/her to go long or short the market. Traders will often use a combination of 5min, 15min, 1hr, 4h and 24hr charts to assess a good time to enter the market. Skilled day traders can make considerable profits this way.
The value of this app can be demonstrated with the following example. Imagine you get an alert that oil has surged/fallen 2% in the past hour (or other time period). As a potential trader in this market you would like to know how often this has happened in your entire dataset. You would also like to know how the market typically responds to such a shock. This app allows the user to avoid a tendency for short term bias of thinking to make a more informed decision as to the likely market response to the move. By extension you can thereby take a statistically more informed position in the market. A more rigorous statistical analysis going beyond the simple boxplot could be performed for different percentiles to further inform a trader (probably my next app).
The use of boxplots in combination with individual data points (the black dots) gives the user an intuitive sense how much data exists to support the boxplot position. As is always the case, less data makes conclusions more risky, but also more profitable if the trader takes a “correct” position.
If you would like to know more contact my at tsubs{at}waywithwords.se
